# Statistics
Baedoor RPG system is based mostly on statistics, which are split into several categories - each one representing different value for gameplay.

* General Stats
  * [Health Points](statistics.md#health-points)
  * [Magic Points](statistics.md#magic-points)
  * [Rest Points](statistics.md#rest-points)
  * [Experience/Levels](statistics.md#experiencelevels)
  * [Weight](statistics.md#weight)
  * [Armour Points](statistics.md#armour-points)
  * [Hunger/Thirst](statistics.md#hungerthirst)
* Powers
  * [Magic](statistics.md#magic)
  * [Tech](statistics.md#tech)
  * [Void](statistics.md#void)
  * [Connection](statistics.md#connection)
* Attributes
  * [Strength](statistics.md#strength)
  * [Agility](statistics.md#agility)
  * [Endurance](statistics.md#endurance)
  * [Intelligence](statistics.md#intelligence)
  * [Charisma](statistics.md#charisma)
* Skills/abilities
  * Fight-related
    * [Shortswords](statistics.md#shortswords)
    * [Longswords](statistics.md#longswords)
    * [Archery](statistics.md#archery)
    * [Firearms](statistics.md#firearms)
  * Magic-related
    * [Spellcasting](statistics.md#spellcasting)
    * [Restoration Magic](statistics.md#restoration-magic)
    * [Transformation Magic](statistics.md#transformation-magic)
    * [Destruction Magic](statistics.md#destruction-magic)
    * [Necromancy](statistics.md#necromancy)
    * [Connection](statistics.md#connection-1)
  * Avoidance-related
    * [Sneaking](statistics.md#sneaking)
    * [Pickpocketing](statistics.md#pickpocketing)
    * [Lockpicking](statistics.md#lockpicking)
    * [Trapspotting](statistics.md#trapspotting)
  * Social-related
    * [Trade](statistics.md#trade)
    * [Persuasion](statistics.md#persuasion)
    * [Musicality](statistics.md#musicality)
  * Technical-related
    * [Repair](statistics.md#repair)
    * [Traps](statistics.md#traps)
  * Resource-related
    * [Resource Processing](statistics.md#resource-processing)
    * [Tools](statistics.md#tools)
    * [Smithing](statistics.md#smithing)
    * [Herbalism](statistics.md#herbalism)
    * [Alchemy](statistics.md#alchemy)
  * Survival-related
    * [Healing](statistics.md#healing)
    * [Cooking](statistics.md#cooking)
    * [Survival](statistics.md#survival)
    * [Toughness](statistics.md#toughness)
* Perks
  * Obtainable During Play
    * [Vehicle Driving](statistics.md#vehicle-driving)
    * [Animal Trainer](statistics.md#animal-trainer)
    * [Toxin Immunity](statistics.md#toxin-immunity)
  * Obtainable Exclusively
    * [Assassin Hit](statistics.md#assassin-hit)
    * [Trader Sight](statistics.md#trader-sight)
    * [Animal Friend](statistics.md#animal-friend)

***
# General Stats
### Health Points
Dependent on endurance attribute. Makes whole life of your character, reaching 0 means death.
### Magic Points
Dependent on intelligence attribute and magic power. Makes you able to use spells.
### Rest Points
Dependent on endurance attribute. Represents how tired your character is. Can be regenerated by sleeping or watch.
### Experience/Levels
Experience is gathered by a lot of actions. It is split into two categories: general and skill-dependent. General is gathered slowly, but steady, and skill-dependent needs specific action being performed. General experience is used to level your character up, skill-dependent experience raises your skills after some time.
### Weight
Dependent on strength. Sets limit of items that your character can carry.
### Armour Points
Additional statistics allowing you to lower down amount of damage your character receives. Added only if armour is used.
### Hunger/Thirst
Optional statistics if realistic mode is turned on. Similarly to rest points, it requires you to drink and eat.

***
# Powers
### Magic
Reflects on how much magic points you has, and also how deeply are you involved in magic. Contradictory to **Tech** in most cases.
### Tech
Reflects your commitment for technology, allowing you to use more advanced elements. Contradictory to **Magic** in most cases.
### Void
Reflects your bounds to Void, being chaotic creative power, forced to order within universe. Contradictory to **Connection** in almost all cases.
### Connection 
Reflects laws of universe, order and schemes, forming shapes from essences. Contradictory to **Void** in almost all cases.

***
# Attributes
### Strength
Reflects on your weight points and power.
### Agility
Reflects on your speed, being connected to all sneak-related actions, as well as additional actions during turns while fighting/doing actions.
### Endurance
Reflects on your health points and speed of losing rest points, as well as regenerating.
### Intelligence
Reflects on your magic points and general learning speed.
### Charisma
Reflects on possible conversation options and whether your other traits can be considered penalty.

***
# Skills
### Shortswords
Helps you fight better with any close-combat weapons with short blade.
### Longswords
Helps you fight better with any close-combat weapons with long blade.
### Archery
Helps you fight better with bows and crossbows.
### Firearms
Helps you using firearms, making them more efficient and reliable.
### Spellcasting
Helps to perform magical actions not bound to any magic school, such as making runes, scrolls or simple spells.
### Restoration Magic
Represents school of Restoration, which controls Connection-Magic relations, such as healing and plant growth.
### Transformation
Represents school of Transformation, which controls Magic-Magic relations, such as transforming world and creating illusions.
### Destruction
Represents school of Destruction, which controls Void-Magic relations, such as creating destructive powers that swallows soul into the Void.
### Necromancy
Represents fallen school of Necromancy, which controls Void-Connection path, forbidden link allowing necromants to summon creatures from what was once living.
### Connection
Represents ancient power manifests, purely bound to earth and laws of universe. Ability used by only some races, allowing them to gain power from essence of the world, but with specific cost.
### Sneaking
Gives better probability of successful sneaking.
### Pickpocketing
Gives better chance of successful stealing from someone's purse.
### Lockpicking
Gives better chance of opening locked chests or door.
### Trapspotting
Allows you to spot traps before you fall into one.
### Trade
Makes your trades less costful or avoiding some penalties.
### Persuasion
Gives better chance of convincing someone by persuasion.
### Musicality
Gives you better performances while playing instruments.
### Repair
Allows you to repair vehicles and inventions.
### Traps
Allows you to create various traps.
### Resource Processing
Gives you more possibilities of processing found resources, allowing you for their further use.
### Tools
Allows you to repair tools and damaged pieces.
### Smithing
Allows you to create blacksmith-related tools, armours and weapons, and being better quality with higher levels.
### Herbalism
Makes you more aware of herbs and allows you to get more details about them.
### Alchemy
Allows you to create various potions, with stronger and more quality-proof effects with higher levels.
### Healing
Allows you to faster health regeneration and making provisional self-treatments.
### Cooking
Allows you to cook meals, being more tasty and useful/quality-proof with higher levels.
### Survival
Gives you various bonuses making your survival a bit easier to get through. With higher levels you can lose your rest points slower or be more immune for some factors.
### Toughness
Makes your skin thick, therefore allowing you to deflect some hits or other effects less powerful.

***
# Perks
### Vehicle Driving
Allows player to use vehicles (such as ships, airships or trains) by itself.
### Animal Trainer
Allows player to communicate better with animals.
### Toxin Immunity
Makes player immune to toxin. Counted with percent ratio, perk is counted if it is above 0%.
### Assassin Hit
Deals additional damage if attacker is hidden during attack.
### Trader Sight
Gives more information about trading.
### Animal Friend
Allows player to communicate with all animals and make them friendly, even if they are not so by default.